# DICE Deployment IDE Plugin

Repo with Eclipse plugin that eases communication with DICE Deployment
Service.


## Maintainer info

Maintaining this repo is a bit tricky (we have a long-living gh-pages branch
that serves as a eclipse update site), so make sure you read next few
paragraphs carefully.

Master branch contains:

 1. sources of our plugins (`bundles/*`),
 2. features that wraps plugin (`features/*`) and
 3. release management files under `releng`.


### Setting up development environment

First, make sure you have eclipse installed and that plug-in development
plugins are installed (a bit of inception here;). Now simply start eclipse and
import projects from this repo. In order to make projects a bit easier to
navigate, switch project explorer view to hierarchical mode.


### Testing plugin

While having eclipse running, open `plugin.xml` file in
`bundles/org.dice.deployments.ui`. On the right side of the *Overview* tab
should be a button and a link named *Launch an Eclipse application* that will
start new eclipse instance with our plugins loaded.


### Generating update site

Update site is generated by maven. But before trying to do anything, we will
checkout `gh-pages` branch into a separate folder using `git worktree`
command. Exact command for this is

    git worktree add gh-pages gh-pages

This command will create new folder `gh-pages`. If we move inside this folder,
we will be automatically working on `gh-pages` branch. Note that this step
only needs to be taken first time we setup the local repo folder. For all
other updates, we will reuse existing work tree.

To generate update site contents, run `mvn clean verify` in the root folder of
the git repository. This will rebuild all of the plugins and features that
will be then packaged in repository that can be copied to the update site.

When the maven is done building the site, we need to copy generated files to
the gh-pages branch. Exact commands that need to be run are (replace `VERSION`
with version of the plugin we just built):

    mkdir gh-pages/updates/VERSION
    cp -rv releng/org.dice.deployments.update/target/repository/* \
      gh-pages/updates/VERSION
    ./update-p2-repo.sh gh-pages/updates

All that we need to do now is to commit the changes to the gh-pages branch and
update site is ready to be added to eclipse. Main address that should be used
for this repo by users is
`http://dice-project.github.io/DICE-Deployment-IDE-Plugin/updates`, which
contains all versions of the plugin. We can also append version number to the
address if we wish to access only specific version of the plugin.


### Removing gh-pages folder

In order to clear `gh-pages` folder, we must first remove it from disk and
instruct git to prune work trees. Command are

    rm -rf gh-pages
    git worktree prune

This will remove folder and clear git's cache. Note that this does not remove
gh-pages branch from git repository. This branch is still safely stored on
disk and on remote.
